Early on when I started my career, I I
left I lost half my initial capital
based on insider trade.
>> Hm.
>> Uh so, I'm I'm extremely familiar with
with the damage it can cause.
But on the other hand,
and in spite of that, I'm in favor of
not having any
uh rules against insider trading. I
would like all the information out there
as soon as it's available.
There is no
because look,
as a society, we're better off knowing
as soon as possible anything that is
knowable, right? So, why why do we have
to wait several First of all, when when
when you when you face with a a merger
or acquisition situation where where
most of the insider trading is
happening, right? I They they You know,
the the the secretaries, the lawyers,
everybody knows about it. They go home,
they tell their wives, their husbands,
they So, it it eventually always filters
out. So, it's almost impossible to
avoid. It's very very difficult and
cumbersome. Why don't we just
do away with it and let the information
come out as soon as possible?
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> Joe, sometimes sometimes I go on
prediction markets.
>> Uh-huh. Yeah.
>> And I see some of the contracts being
traded. And you know, we hear the
argument all the time that there might
be a real economic reason
>> Yes.
>> why prediction markets should exist. So,
maybe, you know, maybe you run a studio
in Hollywood. And so, like, it's
actually really important who will be in
the next cast of whatever Avengers movie
is coming out.
>> But, I have a hard time thinking that
betting on whether or not Jesus Christ
is going to return to the world is
economically important, right?
>> Yeah. No, I think this is a great point.
I mean, I think you're being generous,
actually, with the Avengers thing. I
mean, maybe
um you could strike, but you know, for
example, there is a market, and it's
actually you can track it on Bloomberg
that says on Kalshi, um will there be a
recession before 2027? And that is at
33% right now. Um and that is something
that like that's amazing in a sense that
there is an instrument where you could
bet on this very important question to
investors and express it very purely in
a way that if you were using other
instruments like stocks or bonds, you'd
only be using a proxy for it. But, so
the potential there in my mind for some
of these things is obviously quite high.
>> Well, you could say, certainly, in our
current economic environment
>> Yeah.
>> being able to bet on things like is the
US going to strike Karg Island or
something like that could be actually
useful if you are a large institutional
investor versus just betting on the
price of oil or the direction of stocks
>> or something like that. However, I have
a hard time thinking that institutional
investors are going to flock to a
platform that contains questions that
are both, you know, is there going to be
a recession and also some completely out
there pop culture kind of contract.
>> Totally. Or, you know, obviously, beyond
the pop culture, they're dominated by
sports betting and so forth. So, that's
another question. Also, you know, the
marketing tactics used by the major
prediction market companies are very
different than anything pretty different
than anything we see in traditional
futures, etc. So, I think we both Yeah,
like I do on a fully think that like
there could be legitimate use cases
where there are natural hedgers, natural
liquidity providers for some of these
like swap some of these
pure binary instruments etc. But there
are some pretty big chicken and egg
problems and other things to like
actually get there where there's volume.
You know, for example, some of the
weather related ones.
>> Absolutely.
>> They're great. No one's betting, you
know, there's like $20,000 on some of
them. That's beyond beneath
anything any order of magnitude of
usefulness to any economic or real
speculative actor.
>> That's right. No hedge fund gets out of
bed for less than 20,000. Um okay. So, I
do in fact have the perfect guest to
discuss all of this. Someone who is
trying to solve that chicken and egg
problem and actually create a prediction
market that is more geared towards
institutional investors. And we are
going to be speaking with Thomas
Peterffy. He is of course the founder
and chairman of Interactive Brokers.
Someone who's not just interesting from
a prediction market perspective by the
way, but someone who has been incredibly
influential in the development of
markets
>> globally.
>> globally. Absolutely. So, we're going to
get into the overall, you know, market
structure, AI, all that good stuff. But
we'll start with prediction markets. So,
Thomas, thank you so much for coming on
Odd Lots.
>> Thank you very much for having me.
>> So, when you think about prediction
markets for institutional investors, in
your mind, what is the actual
differentiating factor between, you
know, a retail investor who maybe is
playing around a little bit on something
like Kalshi or Polymarket versus someone
with a lot of money who might be
interested in trading in size?
>> So, from that point of view, the
prediction market is no different than
the stock market except it addresses
much larger
and more important
on the one hand, on the other hand, much
sillier and and less important
questions. So, it all depends on what
you ask. So, the stock market has
Microsoft and uh
Nvidia
and also has
you know, the the GameStop and
other silly stocks, right? So, it it is
the same it is a
parallel situation.
Uh so, you cannot you cannot blame
uh
prediction market the mechanism itself
for the silly things that some
uh
platforms list, right? The the the idea
here is to
deal with questions to gather the
consensus opinion
of people who are preferably experts or
are deep thinkers on the questions that
we're going to ask and to gather their
consensus
so that we can all
uh include that in our decision-making
and planning for the future.
>> That was excellent. And first of all, I
think that's a great point, obviously,
that uh you know, the stock market
contains both Micro Microsoft and Nvidia
and it also includes GameStop
>> is also a recent development.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Like when GameStop happened, we were all
sort of in shock that people were
treating a stock as a token.
>> that's true, but you know, there's been
uh you know, I paid for part of college
trading penny stocks, etc. So, I know
that And if you go back to you know,
>> So, penny stocks are the original
prediction markets.
>> back to the Jesse Livermore era of true
bucket shops and it was like uh you
know, pretty messy, etc. So, from your
perspective, let's talk about like
right now, there's if you if we're
talking about prediction markets in the
US, you know, it's really heavily sports
betting. Then there's some election
stuff and then there's some silly
things, etc. Like just start from First
of all, let's zoom out for the big
question. Do you think that eventually
institutional investors will use
prediction market-like instruments to
trade things like will there be a
recession in the year 2026? And do you
expect that these to become big-volume
contracts at some point?
>> Definitely. I'm I'm I'm absolutely
convinced that
So, the the stock market uh gives us a a
venue to to invest
in the future, basically in the future
of of different companies, but you know,
some of the how those companies are
actually going to end up faring in the
future has a lot to do with the economic
environment and social environment in
the future. And
uh basically, we are left to our own
devices to decipher what future holds.
So, the prediction markets gives gives
us an opportunity to to gather experts
around who are not afraid to put their
money on the line and and uh
express what they think and and and to
collect a consensus opinion so that we
all know
what we can possibly expect if
it is probably a a better guess than
what we individually could come up with.
>> So, a lot of the prediction markets, one
of the problems that they currently have
is that volumes are still pretty low,
right? The markets are very illiquid.
When you talk to institutional
investors, you know, people you would
like to be clients on your platform,
which is called Forecast Trader, by the
way, what are the big hurdles for them?
Like what are they what's stopping them
from going all in on prediction markets
at the moment?
>> Well, at this point,
just it's very similar to any other
market when when it starts, liquidity is
always a big question. And it takes a
long time to gather sufficient
liquidity. If If you look at, for
example, the options markets that have
been run up for
54 years, I think. Initially, there was
very little liquidity and it was very
difficult to to trade more than say
20 or 30 contracts at the time.
Nowadays, you can trade thousands or
maybe even millions of contracts. So, it
it has developed over the past five
decades really well. And uh
uh since stock market is basically
similar
>> What unlocked the liquidity? Was there a
market design choice? Like if you go
back and you're thinking about, okay,
the history of the options market, etc.
Was it just time and existence? Or were
there certain either regulatory or
market structure decisions that had to
be made that truly unlocked the
opportunity to take it to the next level
volume-wise?
>> Yeah, but I think over time, people have
become more familiar with the idea of
what an option is. And uh
and it it is a fairly complex idea
relative to what the prediction markets
are. That's why we tried to come up with
something simpler
than than options. And and as far as
uh that is concerned, I think we have we
have done that. So, it is not going to
be as complex for people to understand a
prediction contract as it is to
understand an options contract. So,
I think that it will not take equally
long time to
to uh develop sufficient liquidity.
>> So, when I go on Forecast Trader right
now, I see bets like, you know, will the
United States economy enter a recession
by the end of the second quarter of 2026
or will 2026 be the warmest year on
record, which as we were talking about
earlier, these are all
things that I would say have economic
implications. When you compare what
Interactive Brokers is doing versus say
a Kalshi or a Polymarket,
is that how you're trying to
differentiate yourself with more, you
know, quote, serious, economically
serious contracts? Is that your edge?
>> So, don't forget that we are very
different companies. Interactive Brokers
has a large uh
following of of uh serious
successful institutional investors and
and and serious investors who who are
managing relatively large portfolios on
our platform. Kalshi doesn't have that.
So,
for us, prediction markets are an
addendum
that enables us to to basically round
out our offering and and our customers
are now have the ability to to to gauge
uh uh such questions as whether a
recession what how likely a recession
recession is going to be.
Kalshi
has no
investors basically other than investors
in the prediction markets. So,
uh for them, it's
first of all, it is hard to
uh maintain yourself only on uh
up until it it really takes off, it's
hard to generate enough trading volume
to make a profit. So, they had to add
things like sports and of course, that
has become their mainstay and and they
are now very profitable due to sports.
But
if
so if they didn't do sports maybe they
couldn't even support the platform. I
don't know.
>> Just to be clear like are you do you get
the impression that from the perspective
of this broad institutional
world that's going to come to prediction
markets that one of your edges will be
this focus that you're not in sports,
that you're not in random pop culture,
that this is going to be contracts that
have the sort of quote serious investor
in mind. Is that part of why you have an
edge in this space?
>> they they they say this is they say this
is by choice. I we prefer to to focus
and concentrate on
serious questions having to do with with
our clients' investments.
Uh
maybe some of them would like us to have
sports, but we just don't want to have
distract them with that.
>> Well say say more about that. So how are
you actually choosing the contracts that
you're presenting as options to
investors?
>> So we are choosing contracts that in our
minds have serious
economic cons the outcomes of the
questions the the answers to which have
serious economic consequences.
So for example global warming, I think
is a huge question.
Maybe not this year, but 10 20 years
from now it certainly will be or or the
rate of adoption of AI or or I mean you
know really significant questions that
that basically will determine how we
live our lives
in and to 20 years from now, and
therefore
it's it's important for us to have
questions for to those answers, so that
people that that enter schools today or
or or decides decide to buy a house
somewhere or or decide what what uh
um profession they are going to study
and and develop into.
Uh
these sorts of questions deserve to have
uh
serious um answers.
So that they can decide what to do.
>> IBKR has of the brokerage platforms that
a retail-ish person could access, always
been like one of the most sophisticated
in terms of the wide range of
instruments that are available from
stocks to bonds to futures, etc.
Is this the first time that you have a
sort of your own market that you built
on the platform rather than IBKR simply
being a window
or a venue to trade on some other
market? Is this new for you?
>> Well, in in a big way, yes. We we we
we've never done anything as large as
this that is so different than
what already existed. But as we were
going along building out the platform
over the
last almost five decades,
uh we certainly
uh have always been on the edge of
trying to bring in new things.
>> Sure.
>> And uh
>> But in terms of like okay, like if I
trade a share of Microsoft on IBKR,
there are established exchanges that
presumably that trade is going to be
routed through. Whereas with Forecast
Trader, you are the market, you're the
broker and the venue at the same time.
And part of what's novel about
prediction markets generally
is this thing where the broker and the
market venue are fusing in a way that
has not been the case historically with
say CME futures, it's not been the same
way with stocks. So, from a market
structure standpoint,
are you Is IBKR in a new position by the
fact that it's essentially both the
broker and the exchange for these
instruments?
>> Uh I I you're you're probably correct in
that.
Although we have we have had in the past
started several indexes and and and
various futures contracts, but but
indexes and futures contract, different
ones, but they already existed.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
the prediction market as such is is Yes,
it's you are correct. It's the first
market that uh where nothing have has
existed like it.
>> Actually, on that note, you know, I
alluded to your history um in the
markets, uh very long history and
formative history. But, how come we
didn't get prediction markets sooner?
You know, like we could have been
betting on global warming 5 or 10 years
ago, and it doesn't seem until, you
know,
>> Well, I I I was reading about prediction
markets in college.
>> Yeah.
>> We started developing the prediction
markets roughly 10 years ago.
And uh
the the
the problem was that
we had some consultants of the firm that
uh were doing some other work. And and
they found out that we were working on
prediction markets,
and at that time we were uh trying to go
for a banking license
and I said, "Well, you will never get
your banking license
if if you come up with this prediction
market. As a matter of fact, the SEC
will not take kindly to it and you will
have all kinds of problems if you really
do this." So, what we did, we
uh we already had built the whole
system. So, what we did was we released
it for phantom money.
>> Oh.
>> And people were playing around
on it
for phantom money and that eventually
petered out because phantom money is not
really interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> And
but it took hold enough for the people
who founded Polymarket and Kalshi to to
see it and to play with it and then
they, you know, they had a better idea
and they went forward with it.
Uh
and and uh you know, Kalshi went to
Mazur went to the CFTC and and
and uh
got himself licensed.
And
I was really upset when I saw that and
then, of course, you see, it was easy
for him because they had nothing. So,
they had nothing to lose.
You see, the problem is that when you
have a when you have a flourishing
business, it's very hard to to do new
things because the downside is so big
for you.
So,
uh
so, he went ahead and then and then I
wanted to buy
Kalshi, but he wouldn't they wouldn't
entertain a sale.
And they didn't even give me a price.
>> What year was that that you were trying
to buy it?
>> Ooh, I think about 5 years ago.
>> Oh, wow.
>> That was going to be my next question.
Why didn't you just buy Kalshi at that
point?
>> What
>> Are you going to um
Is it
>> So then I went to the CFTC and I asked
for my own license. And uh they took uh
3 years to to work it through and give
it to us, but we eventually got it last
year.
No, actually we got it in '24, just
before the elections. Yeah.
>> Wait, that's interesting. So I was just
about to ask you like was it the
election that enabled you to get into
it, but it sounds like actually you
would have been able to get into the
space even without the election uh even
without the uh change in administration.
>> Well, so so look, I mean uh we are in a
very lucky circumstance where we have a
flourishing uh profitable business, so
we can we can support this this crazy
addiction
to develop
the prediction markets that is uh
basically a loss leader. But um
and and we are very sure that eventually
it will be very profitable.
>> One other quick market structure-ish
question, are you going to provide um
leverage? How does that work for these
instruments for your institution?
>> that right now.
It is It is
So up to now it's been a very easy
uh
situation because we didn't we didn't
have to You see a broker always has to
worry about providing leverage. And so
uh most
brokerage firms when they go bust, they
go bust because of the leverage they
provide. And if you look up uh
the the the big Wall Street uh
crises, they all have to do with
leverage always.
>> Yeah.
>> So
uh
but but eventually we will have to
provide leverage. The question is how do
you struct structure that and that is
going to be
I'm sure there'll be some firms that
will go bust on leverage in prediction
markets, yes.
>> Mhm. Do you see a world where I guess
prediction market prices kind of kind of
become standard reference data? Like the
same way we look up credit spreads or
something like that.
>> yeah. Ce- certainly, certainly. I'm I
mean, you know,
uh right now we're when when you
you're saying what is the is the uh
say the Fed going to cut rates or not? I
mean, yeah.
Uh
people are consulting economists and and
say that's that's what the consensus is
opinion is, but it's not as clear as
just look at the at clean probability
that the prediction market provides or
just one plain number to see what what
the probability is that
I think it's a consensus opinion.
>> Wait, why is it not as clear? Cuz I can
go to the bond market and back out what
the bond market thinks about future Fed
moves and that's a huge market. Why
would you need the prediction market to
do that?
>> Well, no, you can go to the Fed funds
market, not the bond market.
You can go to the Fed funds market.
That's that
that is true
and
uh but it's that's another interesting
thing. So, Fed funds markets existed for
a long time
and and it's only recently that people
really consult the Fed fund markets when
when uh they are wondering about rates
and no longer talk to the economists.
>> Mhm.
>> Because just 2 years ago
people
kept talking about what which economy
says what, right?
>> One day we're never going to have to
consult an economist again. I That's
That's like That's like the trader's
dream.
>> That's the world prediction markets are
built.
>> No, I think you see I think that what
will happen is that economists
will be begin to participate in the
prediction markets and instead of
issuing
their predictions, they will they will
trade their own
positions and good ones will make a lot
of money and bad ones will lose.
>> But can we be just among the three of us
here? No one else.
>> Yeah, just among the three of us here.
>> the three of us here for a second. Like
traders,
you guys really don't like economists,
do you? Like you hold you do not hold
them in particularly high esteem, right?
Like let's be honest. Just It's just the
three of us chatting here.
>> Well for a trader an economist is very
confusing because it depends on which
one you talk to, right?
And and and the prediction markets cure
that deficiency, right?
>> Yeah. So right now you could go to
Robinhood and you could trade um markets
on you could trade Kelshie markets via
Robinhood. And we had the CEO of
Robinhood on Vlad Tenev and they also
might have build be building their own
prediction markets venue. Is there ever
a scenario in which IBKR both has a its
own prediction market but is also a
broker that would allow a user I could
like trade um Kelshie futures via my
IBKR account?
>> Absolutely. So we are coming out at
very well
uh put. Uh we are coming out
uh uh at the end of May
with the
with a consolidated feed
>> Huh.
>> where
uh contracts that exist on several
several platforms
we we we will have consolidated so that
we when somebody comes to us,
Interactive Brokers, to to look at the
market, we will give them with the
consolidated feed just like we do on
>> stocks versus stocks.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh trade on I don't know, 20 or 12
markets, and we always have the best bid
and offer, and we always uh
uh provide best executions based on all
the possible venues where that stock
trades, and we will do the same thing on
uh prediction markets.
>> That makes a lot of sense, that analogy
of like best execution. The one issue
that I could see arising, and I'm
curious your thoughts, like a share of
Microsoft
is a share of Microsoft regardless of
whatever however number of um
exchanges it trades on. A bet on a US
recession could be different depend
because then it gets down to contract
specifications, and how Kelso defines
when a recession is triggered could be
different than uh a different platform
defines the same thing. So, how much of
this is going in terms of the future of
the industry is going to depend on a
certain degree of alignment among
platforms
>> fungibility
>> fungibility to align across contract
specifications. And is there work being
done on that?
>> So, so fungibility is a great issue, and
uh it is in the interest of the market
participants
to to create as much fungibility as
possible. So, accordingly, we are going
to structure our contracts to be
identical
>> Okay.
>> Whenever it's possible.
>> That's interesting. Um, can we go back
to making fun of economists for 1
second? But, you know, you made the
point that when you're talking to
economists, it depends on whether you're
talking to a good one. And part of the
whole idea of prediction markets is you
incentivize people with good information
to express their opinions in exchange
for money.
Recently, there's been the issue of I
don't even want to say insider trading
or insider information because I don't
know what constitutes insider trading or
insider information in the prediction
market, but there's been a sense that
we've had a few political developments
and there've been big trades on
prediction markets ahead of some of
those. Maybe someone knows something
ahead of time and they're betting on it.
I don't know if that's wrong per se or
illegal per se, but when you talk to
institutional clients, how concerned are
they about the perception of insider
trading on these platforms?
>> So, insider trading has always been
an issue.
I mean, uh, I have
early on when I started my career, I I
left I lost half my initial capital
based on insider trade.
>> Hm.
>> Uh, so I'm I'm extremely familiar with
with the damage it can cause.
But, on the other hand,
and in spite of that, I'm in favor of
not having any,
uh, rules against insider trading. I
would like all the information out there
as soon as it's available.
There is no
because look,
as a society, we're better off knowing
as soon as possible anything that is
knowable, right? So, why why do we have
to wait several First of all, when when
when you when you face with a a merger
or acquisition situation where where
most of the insider trading is
happening, right? I mean, they they you
know, the the the secretaries, the
lawyers, everybody knows about it. They
go home, they tell their wives, their
husbands, they So, it it eventually
always filters out. So, it's almost
impossible to avoid. It's very very
difficult and cumbersome. Why don't we
just
do away with it and let the information
come out as soon as possible.
>> Sorry, just to be clear, when you say
this, you're talking about all markets
here, not just prediction.
>> All markets.
>> You're so Okay, so even in the stock
market. The counter One counter argument
I can think of a couple of
>> There are many, yeah.
>> But one counter argument would be
liquid capital markets are very good
thing for the economy, and why would I
ever want to participate in a capital
market if it's known that there are
going to be sharks, etc., that are just
like have such an information edge that
I could never win. And so
yes, I yeah.
>> you see, there are sharks not right now.
But if they if there if insider
information just came out as soon as
possible, there would be very little
opportunity for the sharks to to be
around. Because you could be a shark for
a second or two, but that's it.
Nowadays, sharks can be around for
weeks and months.
>> So, the another argument would be that
um from a corporate perspective, I don't
want all my secrets to be monetizable so
easily. So, like I want to be able to
share information with a group of people
inside and not have to worry
>> Yeah, but then protect them yourself.
Don't rely on on national uh laws to to
protect you. I mean, protect them
yourself.
>> I'll just stop talking to them.
>> Wait, I want to hear more about you
mentioned that you lost a bunch of money
half of your capital from insider
trading. What's that Yeah, what's that
about?
>> So
So when I
I bought my seat on the American Stock
Exchange as an options trader in 1977.
And I had uh $200,000
of of saved capital
uh that I started my option trading
business with on the floor of the
American Stock Exchange.
And uh
maybe a a a year or so later
uh I was standing in DuPont
and in those days options were trading
in 16s and 8s.
And uh it was a you know, the day before
expiration
and uh
uh there was a very cheap out of the
money call that was to be expired uh
uh the next day and somebody came in
and in in according to my fair value
sheets that I
only I had in those days
because I had my own options formula and
I I generated the sheets for myself that
option was worth about um
$25, $26.
And and somebody came in and and offered
it at 3/8, which is
$18. Uh offered to me 300 of those
options at $18 and I I bought all 300,
which was at that time the biggest trade
I've ever done. And just as the broker
walks out another
uh
broker walks in and he says, "Where can
I buy 500 of these?"
>> Oh.
>> And nobody said anything. Everybody was
stunned and I said, "3/8." And he said,
"Okay, how many?" I said, "500." I I was
so I was so overwhelmed by the amount of
profit I was suddenly making in in a
5-minute period of time that I
gave up all caution and I sold him the
500. So, I was as a result 200 short.
And then
in the next several minutes the stock
halted trading
and half an hour later it it closed Half
an hour later it reopened with the news
that the fund had a fantastic quarter
and they were splitting the stock three
to three for one.
>> Mhm.
>> And it
opened way, way up. So, the option I
sold uh
200 of net for 3/8 opened at $4.50.
>> Mhm.
>> I can see why you would be traumatized
by insider trading.
>> Yeah.
>> And yet
>> I was really traumatized. I lost $90,000
and it was horrible.
But
I still say to you that
I think the best thing we could do about
inside information is just to get the
news out there as fast as possible and
forget about prosecuting people.
>> I love that idea also that you had your
own fair value sheets which I you know,
I presume those were sheets that were
actually written down at that time in
your pocket.
>> computer generated. I had a computer at
home
and I had developed my own option
formula
in
uh much earlier in in
in 1970.
>> And you were carrying them around on
pieces of paper on the floor?
>> Yeah, I had folded it up in all my
pockets.
>> Okay, so on this note, I mean, you were
one of the earliest people to automate
market making. That's what you're famous
for, and you've been through the whole
transition from humans actually trading
on the floor to everything being
automated nowadays.
Obviously, AI is this huge thing in the
market and in our lives right now. When
you look at AI and compare it to the
early days of electronic trading,
what's similar and what's what feels
different to you now? Is this just
another technological improvement,
another wave of, you know,
productivity-enhancing tech, or is this
something fundamentally new in your
mind?
>> Well, it's a it's a huge leap in
technological developments, but but it's
basically as a computer programmer,
I look at it
basically as a as a new higher-level
language that is much much much much
more powerful than anything that came
before, but uh it uh
qualitatively is not different than the
way we went from machine language to
assembler language to Fortran and Cobol
and eventually C and and and
all the other languages.
Uh
so,
uh this is
a natural language and and uh so it it
that that well, AI is basically a
higher-level language, which is a
natural language, and it also has to it
available all the data
that
exists in the world. So, that's why it
is so immensely powerful.
Uh but uh
as far as trading is concerned,
basically automated trading has existed
for a long time.
Uh we have
uh
started our first automated trading uh
systems in in '80s 1983
and uh
continued developing that ever since.
And then eventually when
when other uh traders came in and bought
out the order flow from
from
brokerage firms uh we didn't think that
that
we should do that. So, then we went out
of
the market making business. But, up to
that point we were the largest market
makers in the world.
>> Uh God, I have so many I have so many
questions. Actually, can we just go back
real quickly to the options pricing
model that you have? It's funny, this is
the second time in a few weeks someone
was telling me about an about I've been
in a conversation about options trading
in the early days. Were you like what
what were you programming that in? What
language? And was it the kind of thing
where like you're you would leave the
computers running overnight and then you
could like come back in the morning and
after
>> No.
>> Like cuz that was
Tell tell us about like the technology
that enabled you to determine fair
market value of options back then.
>> So, I had an Olivetti computer at home,
a desktop Olivetti desktop computer at
home. And when I started to think about
options, I started to uh run law of
simulations and see at what prices I
would break even. And then eventually
they wrote the idea of a probability
distribution curve uh based on which I
would determine the prices of options
that uh after selling to myself many
options, I would break even at which
price. And that's how I determined what
the
what the correct value for an option is.
And that eventually that turned into a a
formula and and uh and code. And so I I
used that computer and if you go to
Interactive Brokers today, there is
something we call probability lab where
we can we can display where we do
display the probability distribution
associated with the future
price changes of any stock
>> Oh, yeah.
>> that we derive from the existing option
prices. So you can see that there and
and and you can basically learn about
options very well.
>> I never saw this page before, but this
makes a lot of sense to me and I've
always been a little bit surprised that
you don't hear more about translating
option math um into sort of normal
intuitive odds cuz it seems like a very
normal thing. One other question, you
know, you mentioned AI as being like a
new the next iteration, maybe the last
iteration because it's natural language
of computer programming. But you know
most computer programming is like it's
deterministic, right? So if you write a
line of code, it will do the same thing
every single time. There's some rule and
it'll always be the same. You put in the
same query into chat GPT, you will not
always get the same output. In fact,
frequently you won't even with the exact
same query of anything. Does that ch-
when you're thinking about applications
of AI within finance, etc., does the
non-deterministic element of
um AI models change
>> language, right? That's why it is not
always the same. It's It's
probabilistic. It's not deterministic.
>> Right.
Does that have implications for its use
in finance?
>> Well, option prices are probabilistic.
Prediction markets are probabilistic.
That's what That's what my initial
impetus was for for prediction markets
is teach people probabilities because
people don't don't tend to not think of
probability probably probabilistically
and I they tend to think well either
this will happen or will not happen and
that somebody knows and that's not how
it is. There is a
there's a probability for something to
happen and nobody knows what really will
happen, right?
>> Do you know how to code in COBOL?
>> In COBOL I can well
I COBOL I cannot but I can code in
Fortran or Fort or
or basic or
C
number of languages is
>> You know you could be making a lot of
money fixing old mainframe systems and
integrating them. Have you considered
doing that?
>> Yeah.
>> Just going back sort of full circle to
to the prediction markets.
I basically you know you're probably
right one day they'll be big. What's the
time frame? What is Do you have like a
testable theory? Can you give us a
number for how big you think they'll be?
You know we don't want to treat you like
some economist who just makes a forecast
that can never be tested or whatever. We
want something hard. So like can you
give us like you know end of 2027 do you
have like or end of 2026 how big will
they be so that we could come back and
we could say was Tomas correct about how
big this space is going to be or not?
>> Well there is
I don't think there is a
there is a good way to
to
I mean I'm always stunned when when I
read a
these projections from consulting firms
about how big some something will be so
many years ahead of time. I I have no
idea how to evaluate that but all I
think it all I know is that it's going
to be very very big because it's
extremely
useful and it's a and it's a
a
it's it's a very simple way for all of
us to
to
uh
direct our decision-making
a prediction market and to hedge our
decision-making.
>> I was just I was just going to say,
Tracy, um I've noticed one of the
contracts that they have on IBKR
is
well, will UCLA's out-of-state tuition
exceed $53,000 in 2026? As someone who
has children who like in the next decade
are going to go to college, I was like,
this could be a very useful thing for uh
me to hedge at some point. Like uh my
daughter heard that there's a good um
uh theater school at the University of
>> on UCLA already.
>> Yeah, UCLA. She said, "I heard there's a
good theater school at the University of
Michigan." And so I have to start
thinking about like University of
Michigan out-of-state tuition.
>> Kids these days are very focused.
>> could be a very useful instrument for
me.
>> Absolutely. College tuitions are
are we are thinking about listing them
at one point.
>> Wait, can I ask
>> We will.
>> a conceptual question, which is like
if prediction markets really take off
and we have more and more money that is
being placed on whether or not the
actual event itself happens. What does
that mean for capital markets? Because I
think about capital markets, you know,
everyone in finance for years and years
and years said this is about the
efficient allocation of capital into
productive industry. And one way of
betting on the future of the US economy
would be by buying US equities and that
money goes into companies and it creates
jobs and a feedback loop and all of
that. If I'm just betting on the actual
outcome
what does it mean for
actually funding economic activities?
>> so so so the money the money you put at
risk, but the money is not laying
around. I mean, the money the the broker
will take that money and put it into
treasury bills, right? So, uh uh as you
know, there is an awful lot of money
that is in treasury bills and that's
financing our deficit. And so, that's
where you your money will be employed.
>> From a regulatory standpoint, is there
anything right now that you think the
CFTC could or should be doing to further
um
to further along this market?
>> Well,
no, I I think I think it's the the the
the the big regulatory problem is
that
there are many questions concerning
specific companies
that we would love to ask, but we do not
know if the question would be a security
or a commodity. And do not know who
should properly regulate it, and
therefore we don't ask these questions,
but it would be extremely useful for us
to be able to ask about the the
the
uh you know, the future developments of
of Nvidia or Microsoft or Google or etc.
>> So, these could be like uh contracts
either related to will they beat or miss
their earnings estimates? It could be
contracts related to when will they
announce
>> of employees they will have or or the
average salary they will have or etc.
And
uh but we do not be the problem is that
the price of Google is a security, you
know that. The price of the shares are
securities, but
so, the the the legislation says that
anything
any
anything that has
an impact on the
on the
on the stock price
uh would be I I
on the financial statement would be a
security. So, there's a lot of stuff
that has um an impact on the financial
statement, but
nobody is listing it in any way, so
it's this this uh
quagmire would have to be cleaned up.
And then we would have uh
a much better market.
>> It sounds like we need to merge the SEC
and the CFTC.
>> That would be great.
>> All right. Uh Thomas Peterffy, thank you
so much for coming on Odd Lots. Really
appreciate it.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Joe, that was an interesting
conversation.
>> That was great. I was not expecting
Thomas to be I don't you know, I I maybe
I should have, but um it's interesting
to hear him completely to say let's get
rid of insider trading laws.
>> Yeah. Um
clearly that was a formative experience
for him, and perhaps he wants to be on
the side of the people that made money
in that transaction rather than the
people that lost out. Um the other thing
I thought was really interesting was
the history with Kalshi.
>> Yeah, I which I hadn't appreciated. I
think this is going to be like such a
interesting space. It's a weird
industry, I think, prediction markets.
Because it's an industry that basically
is two companies right now, which barely
counts as an industry,
but we know from having talked to Vlad
at Robinhood they're going to like build
their own, and then now obviously IBKR
is um you know, has its own. And I think
the really interesting there's a few
interesting questions, but one is like
where is the value going to accrue? Is
it going to be like the venue where the
trading is? Is it going to be who has
the distribution because obviously
Robinhood and IBKR have incredible
distribution via the fact that lots of
people do other trading on there. It
still feels like very much a jump ball
in terms of who makes the money in this
space.
>> Totally. Well, the other thing that was
interesting was the idea of creating
standardized contracts.
>> You know, something more fungible. And
then I wonder, well, if you do that, do
you have to create like an ISDA type
>> Oh, yeah.
>> body that's going to adjudicate on these
things?
>> Right. Yeah, no, that's that's going to
be like a huge question. I did
I would not like I'm my gut is that
Tomáš is right. Like if he is saying
these are going to be a really big thing
and he's like traders are going to want
to have these instruments,
who am I to disagree? Like I maybe like
they won't be big for like random pop
culture stuff, but like are they going
to be big for like recession things and
stuff like that? If Tomáš thinks so,
then I think so. That's what That's
where I stand.
>> It does feel like the steady march of
progress is sort of in this direction.
>> Right. Progress. Progress. In air
quotes.
>> It feels inevitable, but also, I mean,
it's hard not to He mentioned GameStop
and it's hard not to think back to just,
you know, what, 5 years ago now?
>> Yeah.
>> When GameStop happened, it was such a
big story precisely because it was such
a departure from the way people had
treated stock markets previously.
>> Yeah, but you know what? I agree
completely, but I had a thought actually
when he said that that which is you
know, for a long time and there's the
famous
quote equities in Dallas and it's like,
yeah, there was a period not that long
ago in American financial history where
stocks themselves were not regarded as a
particularly important market in and of
themselves. Otherwise, they wouldn't
have talked about how the stock traders
would have had to move out to Dallas.
That's a phrase because the perception
was that stocks weren't really actions.
And so it occurs to me like yes, when
GameStop came out that is like everyone
was like clutching their pearls and
scandalized that the market included is
like oh, people are treating it like
>> call me a grandma.
I know that's where you're going. It's
fine.
>> seriously like
everyone was but like when you actually
think about the big sweep of like stock
market history in the United States, you
know, maybe we shouldn't hold it up on
such a pedestal. There's always been
penny stocks. There's always been the
pink sheets, the bucket the bucket
the bucket shops or whatever they called
were there for a very long time. There
was the curb market where people were
just trading like maybe the era in which
the stock market is like this very
serious thing and like maybe that was
maybe that's kind of the exception.
>> Is the theme of this conversation just
give up basically?
>> I'm just saying like I'm just saying
like maybe maybe there's something to
this idea that's always all these
markets have all been a little bit of a
there's been a
there's been a I don't know what a
>> Oh, what word are you going to use
there?
>> know. I was not CD but all entertain I
don't know like
>> Embrace the CD-ness.
>> Yeah, something like that. Yeah.
>> Okay.
On that note, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> Okay, this has been another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
You can follow me at Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Armon, Dash
Bennett at Dash Bot, and Caleb Brooks at
Caleb Brooks.
>> And for more Odd Lots content, you
should check out our daily newsletter.
You can find that at
bloomberg.com/oddlots.
>> And you can chat about all of these
topics 24/7 in our Discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
>> Mhm.
Mhm.